The main goal of the first prototype of Automatic was to take a step back and really get a good look at the data I was using to train my artificial intelligence. The best way I could possibly do this was to record motion sensor data, round everything to the nearest hundereth, and save it in a local csv file. I did not have to worry about training the AI or using the data for a greater purpose. All I wanted to do was get cleaned up motion sensor data, so that I could see the correlations between their fluctuations and an basketball shot motion. 

My interface was quite simple. It hosted a button that when clicked, would initiate a 3 second long sample of motion sensor recording. After that, this data would be saved to a csv and also be printed to the log. I could then as a developer, look at the data and see how it responds to specific movements. I hoped that I could use this prototype to figure out a threshold of some sorts that I could use to encapsulate my jump shot within a tight window. 

That's the simple rundown of the prototype. Now let's get down to the logic!

I was able to execute this program in roughly 260 lines of code. 

To prevent any runtime errors, I first checked if the accelerometer and device motion was available on the current user's device. If not, I would terminate the program instead of allowing the user to record data. Once I did that, I wrote my function to record data. I knew I needed a structure to store this data after it was done, so I created a MotionData class at the bottom of my program. This class contained lists for all 6 data points I was collecting over the span of 3 seconds (acc x,y,z and gyr x,y,z). It also hosted a dictionary of these lists, which would later be used to write the data to a csv file in string format.

After creating the MotionData class, I used a timer on repeat to collect data and add it to the MotionData object for the next 3 seconds after the record button had been pressed by the user. Since my timer was running at an interval of 1/100, or 100 hZ, I made a counter to keep track of how many intervals had passed. Once this interval reached 300, it meant that I was at 3 seconds worth of data, allowing me to invalidate the timer and move on to the next step. 

After this timer was invalidated, I added functions to the MotionData class that would allow me to wrap the data into a dictionary and write it to a csv. This was the trickiest part of my program for sure. The wrapping function just set each key of the dictionary equal to one of the 6 lists that were already filled with motion data. The csv function took this complete dictionary and iterated through it, creating a string variable that contained all of the values in csv format. 

Example: AX, AY, AZ, GX, GY, GZ
         3.0,4.0,5.0,6.0,7.0,8.0.    This is the format of a csv. A top down table of values in one string variable.
         
         First, I iterateed through the dictionary, but only accessing the keys and not the values, so that I could make the top row of the string.
         Then, I created a nested for loop. The first loop was a simple for loop that ran 300 times, since there were 300 values in each of the lists. The nested for loop, iterated through each key of the dictionary. This allowed me to print out the values in the correct format. For example, the value at index 0 for all lists would be printed horizontally on the second line of the string and so on. Along the way, there were several fixes to new line syntax and spaces that I had to fix, but eventually I created a string which could feasibly be converted into a csv file using FileManager inside of xCode.
         
         Now, all there was left to do was write this string to a file and save it. After several google searches, I found the syntax to do this, which was quite simple. 
         
         And that's it! That is how I created the first prototype of my motion sensor artificial intelligence watch OS app. It truly allowed me to grasp a better understanding of the data and was a great first step towards a minimal product😄!

